docs/_projects/01-shake-shake.md, before:

---
title: "Shake, Shake"
permalink: /docs/projects/shake-shake/
excerpt: "Use the motion sensor to detect shaking, and use a simple Azure Functions app to find a random tweet with a #hashtag."
header:
  image: /assets/images/projects-shake-shake.jpg
  teaser: /assets/images/projects-shake-shake-th.jpg
layouts_gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-1.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-1.jpg
    alt: "Arduino application initializing"
  - url: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-2.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-2.jpg
    alt: "Ready to shake"
  - url: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-3.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-3.jpg
    alt: "Display a random tweet"
last_modified_at: 2017-05-05T10:16:34-04:00
---

In this project, you will learn how to use the motion sensor to trigger an event using Azure Functions. The app will retrieve a random tweet with a #hashtag you have configured in your Arduino sketch. The tweet will display on the DevKit screen.

{% include toc icon="columns" %}

## What you need

* Finish the [Getting Started Guide]({{"/docs/getting-started/" | absolute_url }})

## Windows

### Step 1. Open project folder

#### A. Launch VS Code

Launch VS Code first and connect the DevKit to your computer. VS Code will automatically find it and pops up introduction page:

![mini-solution-vscode]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-vscode.png" | absolute_url }})

#### B. Open Arduino Examples folder

Switch to **'Arduino Examples'** tab, navigate to `Examples for MXChip AZ3166 > AzureIoTHub` and click on `ShakeShake`.

![mini-solution-catalog]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-catalog.png" | absolute_url }})

If you closed the **Arduino Examples** pane, to reload it, use `Ctrl+Shift+P` to invoke command palette and type **Arduino** then find and select **Arduino: Examples**.

### Step 2. Provision Azure services

In the solution window, run your task through **Quick Open** (`Ctrl+P`) by typing 'task cloud-provision':

In the VS Code terminal, an interactive command line will guide you through provisioning the required Azure services:

![mini-solution-provision-sub]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-provision-sub.png" | absolute_url }})

### Step 3. Modify the #hashtag

Open `ShakeShake.ino` and look for the line of code:

```cpp
static const char* iot_event = "{\"topic\":\"iot\"}";
```

Replace the string `iot` in the curly brace with your preferred hashtag.

### Step 4. Deploy Azure Functions

Use **Quick Open** (`Ctrl+P`) to run 'task cloud-deploy'. It will start deploying the Azure Functions code. Normally it takes 2 to 5 minutes to finish:

![mini-solution-deploy]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-deploy.png" | absolute_url }})

### Step 5. Build and upload Arduino sketch

Use **Quick Open** (`Ctrl+P`) to run 'task device-upload'. The terminal will prompt you to enter configuration mode. To do so, hold down button A, then push and release the reset button. The screen will display 'Configuration'. This is to set the connection string that retrieves from 'task cloud-provision' step.

Then it will start verifying and uploading the Arduino sketch:

![mini-solution-build]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-build.png" | absolute_url }})

The DevKit will reboot and start running the code.

## macOS

We are currently working on interative command line experience for macOS just same as for Windows. These [manual steps]({{"/docs/projects/shake-shake-macos/" | absolute_url }}) will use portal to provision Azure services.

## Test the project

After app initialization, click button A and mildly shake the board to retrieve a random tweet with your hashtag (e.g. #build2017). A tweet will display on your screen in a few seconds:

{% include gallery id="layouts_gallery" caption="Shake, shake for a random tweet with #hashtag you set in the code." %}

- Press button A again, then shake for a new tweet.
- Press button B to scroll through the rest of the tweet.

**Note:** Sometimes you will see 'On processing...' status on screen without getting the results. You can try to click `Reset` button to restart the app.
{: .notice--info}

## How it works

![mini-solution-voice-to-tweet-diagram]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-diagram-shake-shake.png" | absolute_url }})

The Arduino sketch sends an event to Azure IoT Hub which triggers the Azure Functions app. Azure Functions contains the logic to connect to Twitter's API and retrieve a tweet. It wraps the tweet text into a C2D (Cloud-to-device) message and sends it back to the device.

Commit message:

Add missing step for configuring Twitter bearer token

docs/_projects/01-shake-shake.md, after:

---
title: "Shake, Shake"
permalink: /docs/projects/shake-shake/
excerpt: "Use the motion sensor to detect shaking, and use a simple Azure Functions app to find a random tweet with a #hashtag."
header:
  image: /assets/images/projects-shake-shake.jpg
  teaser: /assets/images/projects-shake-shake-th.jpg
layouts_gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-1.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-1.jpg
    alt: "Arduino application initializing"
  - url: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-2.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-2.jpg
    alt: "Ready to shake"
  - url: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-3.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/mini-solution-shake-shake-3.jpg
    alt: "Display a random tweet"
last_modified_at: 2017-05-05T10:16:34-04:00
---

In this project, you will learn how to use the motion sensor to trigger an event using Azure Functions. The app will retrieve a random tweet with a #hashtag you have configured in your Arduino sketch. The tweet will display on the DevKit screen.

{% include toc icon="columns" %}

## What you need

* Finish the [Getting Started Guide]({{"/docs/getting-started/" | absolute_url }})

## Windows

### Step 1. Open project folder

#### A. Launch VS Code

Launch VS Code first and connect the DevKit to your computer. VS Code will automatically find it and pops up introduction page:

![mini-solution-vscode]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-vscode.png" | absolute_url }})

#### B. Open Arduino Examples folder

Switch to **'Arduino Examples'** tab, navigate to `Examples for MXChip AZ3166 > AzureIoTHub` and click on `ShakeShake`.

![mini-solution-catalog]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-catalog.png" | absolute_url }})

If you closed the **Arduino Examples** pane, to reload it, use `Ctrl+Shift+P` to invoke command palette and type **Arduino** then find and select **Arduino: Examples**.

### Step 2. Provision Azure services

In the solution window, run your task through **Quick Open** (`Ctrl+P`) by typing 'task cloud-provision':

In the VS Code terminal, an interactive command line will guide you through provisioning the required Azure services:

![mini-solution-provision-sub]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-provision-sub.png" | absolute_url }})

### Step 3. Modify the #hashtag

Open `ShakeShake.ino` and look for the line of code:

```cpp
static const char* iot_event = "{\"topic\":\"iot\"}";
```

Replace the string `iot` in the curly brace with your preferred hashtag.

### Step 4. Configure Twitter bearer token

You will need a bearer token with your Twitter account and configure it in Azure Function in order to retrieve the tweet.

1. Follow this guide to [create a Twitter application](http://docs.inboundnow.com/guide/create-twitter-application/){:target="_blank"}

2. Make a note of the `Consumer key` and `Consumer secret`

3. Use [some utility](https://github.com/wellsjo/get-twitter-bearer-token){:target="_blank"} to generate the application bearer token 

4. In VS Code, open **azureFunction > index.js**, find and replace the `{twitter bearer token}`with your own and save the file

### Step 5. Deploy Azure Functions

Use **Quick Open** (`Ctrl+P`) to run 'task cloud-deploy'. It will start deploying the Azure Functions code. Normally it takes 2 to 5 minutes to finish:

![mini-solution-deploy]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-deploy.png" | absolute_url }})


### Step 6. Build and upload Arduino sketch

Use **Quick Open** (`Ctrl+P`) to run 'task device-upload'. The terminal will prompt you to enter configuration mode. To do so, hold down button A, then push and release the reset button. The screen will display 'Configuration'. This is to set the connection string that retrieves from 'task cloud-provision' step.

Then it will start verifying and uploading the Arduino sketch:

![mini-solution-build]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-build.png" | absolute_url }})

The DevKit will reboot and start running the code.

## macOS

We are currently working on interative command line experience for macOS just same as for Windows. These [manual steps]({{"/docs/projects/shake-shake-macos/" | absolute_url }}) will use portal to provision Azure services.

## Test the project

After app initialization, click button A and mildly shake the board to retrieve a random tweet with your hashtag (e.g. #build2017). A tweet will display on your screen in a few seconds:

{% include gallery id="layouts_gallery" caption="Shake, shake for a random tweet with #hashtag you set in the code." %}

- Press button A again, then shake for a new tweet.
- Press button B to scroll through the rest of the tweet.

**Note:** Sometimes you will see 'On processing...' status on screen without getting the results. You can try to click `Reset` button to restart the app.
{: .notice--info}

## How it works

![mini-solution-voice-to-tweet-diagram]({{"/assets/images/mini-solution-diagram-shake-shake.png" | absolute_url }})

The Arduino sketch sends an event to Azure IoT Hub which triggers the Azure Functions app. Azure Functions contains the logic to connect to Twitter's API and retrieve a tweet. It wraps the tweet text into a C2D (Cloud-to-device) message and sends it back to the device.
